%title Break Laws (and Tell People!)

In a more ideal world, the US Government would be dedicated to reviewing existing laws for effectiveness and repealing ineffective laws on its own. In this world, if we want laws repealed, then we have to talk about how we’ve broken them.

For the record, I have broken: the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Controlled_Substances_Act|Controlled Substances Act]], the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Federal_Analog_Act|Federal Analog Act]].

Although I have never been convicted of a crime I have ‘ab-used’ (apparently according to the US Government there is no way to ‘use’ marijuana in a way that isn’t abnormal, or simply possessing it wouldn’t be a crime) a multitude of controlled substances. The following drugs are listed in descending order of harm (that’s right, alcohol one of the most harmful substances on this list).

== [[http://www.gwern.net/Modafinil|Modafinil]]: bought, used, sold ==

Modafinil is quite an interesting substance. I would strongly recommend you read Gwern’s analysis of it on his website. I find occasional use of modafinil to counteract sleep deficit has extreme utility. As a study aide it is _vastly_ preferable to to adderall (a mixture of amphetamine salts is just a hop and a skip away from actual _meth_, that is methamphetamine) as it does not induce in me jitteriness, heart palpitations, or other unpleasant physical effects. In fact, modafinil is quite unique amongst drugs I’ve tried in having extremely low to neigh undetectable body load. When meditating I can feel its effect in my brain, but it is a minor sensation.

Modafinil is trivial to acquire online.

== [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MDAI|MDAI]]: bought, used ==

MDAI is an extremely subtle substance. I would classify it as a minor psychedelic. It has no overt effects, but induces a very slight magnification of senses. It seemed to me to induce an effect of amplified beauty. I attended honors modern literature under its influence and had the most moving experiences I had ever felt during classes. I positively fell in love with _To the Lighthouse_ by Virginia Woolf. Perhaps that is simply due to her magnificent writing.

== [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psilocybin_mushrooms|Psilocybin]]: bought, used, sold, grew ==

Growing mushrooms is very easy to do, I encourage you to [[http://www.shroomery.org/|try it yourself]]! Mushrooms are, of course, a classic psychedelic. My mushroom trips have all been very contemplative and “earthy” perhaps due to the “earthy” taste of the mushrooms. Inexperienced mushheads will experience nausea during the onset. I love the visual aspect of mushroom trips. Seeing wood floors flowing is just so awesome. It’s something you’ve got to experience for yourself. Viewing natural objects while on mushrooms is fantastic. It’s really a trip that calls you out into nature. Something about the drug seems to amplify the perception of fractals, especially in nature.

Like LSD, mushrooms made my mind more malleable. I found them very helpful in overcoming childhood fears and reshaping my present persona to be more positive and loving. Needless to say, meditation while tripping is out of this world.

[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/LSD|LSD]]: bought, used, sold.

LSD is probably the most effective self-therapy drug of anything I’ve tried. The LSD trip is fantastic, assuming you’ve actually gotten LSD. Here’s a hint, if it has any flavor at all, it isn’t LSD. True LSD is flavorless and odorless.

[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marijuana|Marijuana]]: bought, used to great effect in enhancing pleasurable activities, sold.

Salvia: bought, used.

[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MDMA|MDMA]]: bought, used.

[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/25C-NBOMe|25C-NBOMe]]: used to the temporary detriment of my sanity (thought it was LSD, got sloppy and didn’t test it; let this be a warning to you; of course the mistake would not have happened if legally registered LSD manufacturers were allowed to exist).

JWH-018: used.

Dextromethorphan: bought, used.

Adderall: bought, used, sold.

Tobacco: bought, used.

Alcohol: bought, used.

[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mephedrone|Mephedrone]]: bought, used (this is terrible; MDMA ought to be legal if only so that no one would ever seriously consider mephedrone again).

This is how I’ve decided I will react to the US Government’s ever encroaching surveillance. If they want to know everything about me, then fine. But it’s only fair that my fellow Americans also know everything about me. This is the transparent course of action. 
