_Well met._

Oh, Jesus! What the hell!?

_Jesus? Heh, no, I’m Death. Would you like to visit hell? It can be arranged. But you’ll have to be more specific about which hell you want._

No, no, no thank you. Am I… Why are you here? Is it time?

_Just checking in. Seems like you aren’t fully enjoying your time here. Perhaps I could shorten it for you?_

What? I’m having a great time here…

_Yesterday you almost cried while you were on the toilet._

Well, sure, life has its ups and downs. But… uh, I still have things to do here.

_Fascinating. What things?_

Umm… I want to write a novel still. And travel to Norway. 

_Doesn’t seem like you do._

What do you mean?

_Seems like you want to just keep going to a job that is only tangentially related to your dreams. Come home drained and waste your time in front of a screen. And then do it all over again the next day._

That’s not what I want to do. That’s just what I have to do. But I’ll be able to do what I want eventually. I just have to build up my resources and suffer through the now, you know, until I have the circumstances I need to do my life’s work. I’m sure you understand.

_No._

What do you mean no?

_Maybe I won’t let you._

What?

_You assume you’ll have time ‘eventually’. Maybe I’ll just end you right here. Maybe I’ll end you in a few months._

Oh my god. Are you threatening me?

_Oho, addressing me by my title now? Do you feel this relationship is becoming more formal, mortal? I am always threatening you._

Please, have mercy on me.

_Very well. Take this maxim to heart: the sooner you start, the more likely you are to finish._

Is that really true though? If I start something I’m not ready for, then maybe I won’t be able to finish it.

_FOOL! Have you learned nothing? Are you not in awe? BOW BEFORE ME. You are always ready. If you dely starting by even five minutes, what’s to prevent me from ending you within those five minutes._

Forgive me… I will meditate on your wise words.

_Implement them too, imbecile, before you perish with regrest._
