[[Six Feet Deep]], one of my very first stories, an early foray into fantasy writing. My inexperience definitely shows here both in my description and dialogue. It is also incomplete. All that said, I thought the concept was pretty cool, and I will come back to it with time.

[[Separation]] is one of my best early works. It began as an experiment in writing a story using only dialogue in the early drafts. It still has that feel to it, but in the interest of pragmatism some description was inserted. If it feels like several stories in one, that's because it is. I really like the story-within-the-story. At the time I wrote this I was very much a hopeless romantic, thus I poured a lot of myself into this. As hinted at in the story itself, the writing process was therapeutic for me, and helped me overcome a few unrequited loves that I was nursing. I'm quite fond of this story overall, and I think it reflects the many weeks I labored over it. The writing process was fairly frustrating, I tried six different permutations of verb tense and narrative perspective before I settled on the current outcome. This was my first attempt at writing in present tense, and I rather liked it. It is my first story to feature the idea of self-fulfilling prophecy, a theme that has become increasingly prominent in my writing.

[[Ghost Train]] is somewhat of a sequel to _Separation_. I was challenging myself by writing from a woman's perspective, specifically Aliza's. Again the writing is in present tense. This time, however, there is a lot more description. I had felt some unresolved feelings after writing _Separation_, which this story explores a bit. _Separation_ was the first time I felt like I was _really_ writing in that I was making myself as the author very vulnerable in the act. This story then, was my reflection on that.

[[An Invitation]] is yet another sequel to _Separation_. Because why not make it a trilogy? I ended up really enjoying writing from Aliza’s perspective, so I decided to do it again. I wasn’t really “over” the girl who inspired Aliza, so I had to write a story giving _Separation_ a more hopeful ending. In this story I was experimenting with characterization, and I tried to create as varied of a cast I could in limited space.

[[A Stone's Fall]] is another early work. I was inspired by Alan Moore's _Watchmen_ to try embedding textual documents within the story to advance the plot. This was written during a dark time in my life, perhaps the second darkest overall, and it certainly reflects a lot of angst that I felt in high school. In retrospect my high school experience was fantastic, but I couldn't see it for what it was at the time. I had originally just intended to write a fantasy story about a living gargoyle, a trope I found fascinating, but the concept kept changing as I was writing it. I couldn't bear to write a story that didn't mean something more to me. I wrote several drafts of this from Thomas's perspective, which I may revisit. The main reason I abandoned those drafts was that seeing through his eyes was too depressing. Now as a more mature author I may be able to handle it.

[[The Climb]] is a story I wrote in 2008 that still resonates with me to this day. The struggle of moving apart from friends and loved ones in order to achieve new heights is something I have to deal with every day in New York. I enjoy the purity of the concept in this story. I especially love the scene at the summit of the climb. I chose the name Nora because I was enamored with [[http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0954253/|Nora Zehetner]] after her superlative performance in [[http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0393109/|Brick]].
