0. Minimize Noise

I define noise as any extraneous sound or motion. I wish to achieve graceful
economy in all my motion. I find it a fun challenge to do everyday tasks such as
washing the dishes while making as little noise as I can manage. In physical terms,
sound caused by mechanical motion indicates a loss of energy through inefficiency.

This doesn't automatically make me a good listener, but it certainly helps.

1. Maximize Signal

The yang of the previous rule is that when I do wish to express something, I do
so completely and as effectively as I can. 

    Express yourself completely,
    then keep quiet.
    Be like the forces of nature:
    when it blows, there is only wind;
    when it rains, there is only rain;
    when the clouds pass, the sun shines through. _The Dao De Jing_

The logic behind these principles is obvious to me. If I were to transmit two
songs on a single radio band, neither would be heard clearly. Thus I should pick
one message, and transmit it with as little noise as possible.

2. Minimize Interference

When my signal would interfere with another person's intentional transmission,
then it is preferable to move apart rather than create interference patterns.

I feel this is the best way I can respect each person's right to free speech.

I will intervene in the case of violence with the intent to harm. This is the
one exception I allow myself. If you aren't physically, mentally, emotionally, 
or spiritually harming someone, I believe I have no say in what you do.

3. Maximize Mutual Gain

The yang of the previous rule is that when I see the opportunity to, I try to
increase my own signal and those of people around me by combining efforts.

I believe that long lasting benefit comes only through mutual benefit. If I 
benefit at the expense of another, then that benefit is ephemeral at best.

The analogy in these last two principles to signals interfering when out of phase,
and mutually amplifying when in phase should be obvious.
