Lovism is a [[micro-religion|micro religion]] that has just three tenets. Two of them don't even require faith!

=== 0. I am. ===

If you are reading this, that should be pretty obvious.

=== 1. U are. ===

‘U’ is a very general term. It can mean ‘you’ in the conventional sense of another person, or ‘U’ as in the Universe at large. The point is, there is something other than yourself. This too should be obvious.

=== 2. I love U ===

This is the only tenet that requires any faith. Being a lover requires only that you internalize this and apply it wherever possible. Let’s say that you are making breakfast, and you happen to contemplate your toaster. Since your toaster is a ‘U’, you say to it, “I love U”. Then, as you are walking out the door you see your neighbor, and you say “I love U”. 

Sometimes you might see something you aren’t sure you love. You might ask yourself, “do I love U?” Have faith! Just remember, “I love U”. That’s all it requires!

Lovism doesn’t have complicated rules like, “Thou shalt not murder”, because all that is covered by “I love U”. Just remember that “I love U” and then do as your heart guides you.

= Lovism FAQ =

=== 0. Do I have to love my manager? ===

I love U.

=== 1. What if I feel angry? ===

Have faith. I love U.

=== 2. What if sometimes I hate my parents? ===

Tell them, “I love U”.

=== 3. How do I convert more people to Lovism? ===

Preach the gospel. That is, tell people “I love U”.

=== 4. Sometimes I feel depressed. Can lovism help with that? ===

Sure, just tell yourself “I love U”.

=== 5. Doesn’t ‘U’ piss you off? It pisses me off. ===

I love you. You can just spell it ‘you’. I’m just trying to make a point about the Universe.

=== 6. Aren’t we just blindly repeating a rote formula? === 

You need to mean it in your heart when you say “I love U” or you will be correct in saying it is meaningless. The religious experience of Lovism is felt and acted.
