It is impossible for me to describe myself at the present. The best I can provide
is an outdated snapshot. In reverse chronological order, these are some things I
“am” or “was” at one point.

I am an employee at the sterling start-up [[http://www.sailthru.com|Sailthru]] where I get to work on challenging problems, hone my programming abilities, learn from far more experienced developers, set my own hours, attend yoga classes, eat free lunches, enjoy the company of my coworkers, attend [[Sail-ALE]] every Thursday, enjoy the spectacular view out the office windows, exercise, meditate, and generally enjoy life. 

I was a [[http://hackny.org|hackNY]] fellow. As a result I met a most astoundingly talented group of [[hackNY Fellows|hackers]], with whom I hope to stay connected to my entire life. I also got this kick-ass internship at Sailthru, where I now work full time. I got my first taste of [[New York]], a city only slightly less addicting than (so I hear) cocaine. I saw so many amazing speakers that it would be bragging for me to mention that they included the founders of [[http://www.codecademy.com/|Codecademy]], the founders of [[http://branch.com|Branch]], [[http://www.buzzfeed.com/jonah|Jonah Peretti]], [[http://billychasen.com|Billy Chasen]] (founder of [[http://turntable.fm|turntable.fm]]), [[http://www.gothamgal.com|Joanne Wilson]], [[http://www.joelonsoftware.com/AboutMe.html|Joel Spolsky]], the founders of [[http://foursquare.com|Foursquare]], [[http://knowyourmeme.com/memes/people/christopher-poole-moot|Christopher Poole aka moot]], [[https://twitter.com/PeterBell|Peter Bell]], [[http://joshknowles.com/|Josh Knowles]], [[http://cdixon.org|Chris Dixon]], [[http://fascinated.fm|Anthony Volodkin]], and many more to come.

If you are one of those people that insists on a [[resume]], there you have it.
