Meditation changed my life for the better. It has helped me overcome depression and suicidal thoughts, social anxiety, drug addictions, attention deficit disorder, and the gnawing sense of emptiness and nihilism that I had not been able to shake for years.

If you are perfectly content with your life and have no qualms with who you are or what you are doing, then congratulations! You probably don’t need to meditate. But if you feel like you might benefit from crisp concentration, accentuated alertness, real relaxation, superb sleep, or habitual happiness, then meditation might be for you.

I recommend getting started with mindfulness meditation. You can jump straight in with my [[mindfulness meditation guide]], or if you need more convincing you can read my [[mindfulness meditation theory]] page to gain an understanding of how and why it works and what it does, or if you prefer a less anecdotal and more scientific perspective then you can read the [[http://scholar.google.com/scholar?q=mindfulness+meditation|extensive academic research on mindfulness meditation]].

When you've made good progress in mindfulness, a good next step is to learn some basic insight meditation. Again, you can jump straight in with my [[insight meditation guide]] or you can learn about [[insight meditation theory]], or you can read the [[http://scholar.google.com/scholar?hl=en&q=vipassana|scholarly articles on insight meditation]].

I will be expanding this page as I add my guides for other meditation techniques including concentration meditation, insight meditation, mantra meditation, and much more. I would also like to compile a resource page of the best books I have read on the subject of meditation. 

If you feel that you need assistance please [[contact me]]. I am ready and willing to assist you, and I seek no payment for my services. Rather, I only request that if you find meditation to be of as much value in your life as I have in mine, that you too pass the gift on to friends and loved ones.
