This treatise is my attempt to share the joy of meta-cognition with you. Using
meta-cognition I cured myself of depression and attention deficit disorder by
gaining control over my emotions and thoughts. Stages 1 and 2 explain how I did
this.

I also learned to rest my mind in states of enormous bliss. I haven't mastered
this sufficiently to teach it yet (I've only been meditating for a year), but I
will return to this when I have. Stage 3 will explain how to empty your mind and
improve your concentration so you can explore for the samadhi states yourself. 
They may arise naturally, and there are many books you can refer to. I will 
record a list of my recommendations after reviewing the books I've read to 
determine which were of genuine benefit.

Meta-cognition is the process of mind thinking about mind. This self awareness
is our distinguishing trait, and by gaining mastery over the brain to such an
extent that we can dynamically reprogram it we reap benefits I'm only beginning
to discover. Realize that you are not your thoughts, just as you are not your
body, and step out of your thoughts to command them for your benefit.

This is a guide to meditation, but you'll notice I do not mention sitting.
Meditation is portable, and you will not benefit fully from it until you apply
it throughout daily life.

Stage 1: Normal Consciousness
Diagnosis: Many thoughts escape your inspection.
Remedy: Noting practice.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

At this stage we are like most people. We may occasionally meta-cognate, that is, 
think about thoughts, but the majority of our thoughts are not inspected.

Negative thoughts such as hatred rule us through our tacit consent. Unless we 
notice we are thinking a hateful thought and consciously counteract it, then we 
allow it to control our actions (we become angry).

If you've ever been negatively affected by acting out of anger, sadness, lust, 
or fear then you can imagine how mastering these emotions would be beneficial.

Our strategy at this stage is to become aware of every single thought passing 
through our minds, giving each one a close inspection. This can be accomplished 
through noting practice.

   Noting
   ------
   Try to attach a short mental label to each distinct sensation that arises. 
   For example, 'body' for any bodily sensation. 'Thought' for any thoughts. 
   'In' for the in-breath. 'Out' for the out-breath. Begin by trying to note as 
   many different sensations as possible per second. When you can comfortably 
   note ten sensations per second, then improve the accuracy of your labels. 
   Divide your thoughts into categories such as 'planning', 'fantasizing', 
   'remembering', etc. Pinpoint bodily sensations to their origin. For example, 
   'left arm', 'right ring finger', 'left thigh', 'heart', 'belly', etc. 

Practice noting until it becomes automatic. When you have done this you will
have vastly increased your conscious awareness. Nothing that happens to you
will escape your notice. This comes as both a blessing and a curse, as you will
become acutely aware of much negativity. Thus we continue to the next stage.

Stage 2: Awareness without Control
Diagnosis: You are aware of your thoughts, but unable to control them.
Remedy: Establish the breath anchor.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Now that we are aware of our thoughts we notice many we don't want. How do we
banish them? If you've ever tried not thinking about orange unicorns you might
be familiar with the challenge we face. Any way we think of not wanting to think
about orange unicorns causes us to think about orange unicorns more.

To stop thinking about orange unicorns think about something else to such a 
degree that you forget all about orange unicorns. To rid ourselves of a thought 
we need something else to latch onto.

When we want to stop a thought short, we move our awareness to the breath. Why
use our breath? When we are having a particularly bad day our worrying thoughts 
will repeatedly draw us in. Thus we need a continual reminder to "stop worrying, 
live in the moment". We can use the rhythm of our breath as that trigger. Each 
time we breath out remember "don't worry, just breath".

Our breath and our emotions are linked. When we are stressed we breath short and
shallow. When we are relaxed we breath long and deep. That's how we always want 
to breath, to ensure our brains get enough oxygen. If you control your breathing 
so that it is deep you will automatically be relaxed. 

In order to gain mastery over our thoughts and emotions we establish the breath
as the foundation of our awareness. Consider the breath your mental home base.
Imagine that every time your thoughts stray from your breath it's like exploring
the countryside outside your castle. You will encounter many pleasant thoughts
out there. Whenever you encounter a thought that is useless to you, such as ones
of anger or depression, you just stroll back to your castle. 

When we first begin this practice negative thoughts will keep arising. Our goal
at this point isn't to stop those thoughts from arising at all. It's just to cut
them off once we notice them by returning to breath. Instead of thinking "Man,
I really hate Suzy. She's such a bitch." think "Man, I really ha--" and get back
to breathing! Over time our brains rewire and those negative thoughts come less
and less, until one day you notice you've thought nothing but nice thoughts about
other people.

   Breathing
   ---------
   Breath with your diaphragm. The easy way to do this is imagine breathing into
   your belly. When you breath in, your belly expands, because your diaphragm
   lowers. When you breath out, your belly compress, pushing your diaphragm up.
   Breathing this way gives us our full lung capacity, unlike chest breathing.

Stage 3: Approaching the Void
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

TODO: Mantras or visualizations for concentration
TODO: Golden Flower Meditation for complete stillness
TODO: Deconstructing all sensations into neural blips

