Dear Matt,

You should cultivate your pronoia. You should believe that every is out to get you exactly what you want. You should believe that the world is one vast conspiracy to make you happy. 

Your failures are carefully orchestrated so that you will learn a valuable life lesson and gain the confidence to succeed at your heart's desire. When you miss a train it's so that the timing will line up for you to meet your new friend. When it rains you will appreciate the sun the next day. 

When you lie in the grass suntanning and the bugs bite, you know mother nature is giving you acupuncture. 

You should believe, as is the Buddhist practice, that everyone else is enlightened. All that they do is to teach you lessons so that you too can become enlightened. When the barman is rude you should know that he's just training your patience and tolerance. When you are left dishes to do it is so that you will have a fun diversion from your work, so that you will develop skillful grace with your hands, so that you can relish in the purity and joy of simple tasks.

You should know that modern day distractions are meant as a test of your concentration. That financial hardship paves the way to steely resolve. 

You should marvel at how wondrously people are able to act in order to pretend that they really truly did do something out of malice, and not to help you out in the long run, in ways you can't even comprehend. 

Whenever you see people whispering to each other and looking over, you know they are plotting how to help you. 

Just imagine and weep with joy at all these enlightened beings constructing this enormous, elaborate obstacle course just so that you may join their ranks. To build cities full of diversions, high speed transportation, all this preparation for centuries upon centuries just so that you could experience and enjoy your life.

Truly you are the most splendidly spoiled person that ever existed. 

And, of course, knowing all this, you can't help but wish to repay this kindness that everyone shows you. You will labor, behind the scenes if need be, to improve the lives of others. You will express gratitude at the entry of each new person into your life. You will see each moment as an opportunity to repay your cosmic debt to the fantastic and varied beings with whom you share this existence. You will find joy in every moment, simply contemplating how magnificently _just so_ the world is. How there is, upon reflection, no detail that isn't just right the way it is. And you will smile, and your heart will overflow with emotion. How is it that you came to be here? That there is something and not nothing? Because you are loved.
