I mean this on a very literal level, but also on a metaphorical level. I’ll get to the metaphorical level later.

[[http://yourbrainonporn.com/|Your Brain On Porn]] can explain the scientific reasons why pornography and masturbation are harmful to you (I am not a fundamentalist Christian or a moralist in any sense, the reasoning is all purely physical) far better than I can, so I will let it.

I like to focus on the positive, so instead of listing the drawbacks of masturbating, I’ll just list the benefits of abstaining that I’ve experienced. Please, in the spirit of science, verify these benefits for yourself.

* Increased confidence
* Increased muscle gain from working out
* Increased alertness
* Increased interactions with women
* Increased drive to improve my life

Most of this I can simply directly attribute to the increased serum testosterone one gains after about a week without orgasm. Pretty nifty. I would say it has made me ‘cockier’ and ‘ballsier’—turns out, words have meaning, funny isn’t it? 

Here are some effects that aren’t chemical in nature, but are psychological.

* No more porn shame
* No more fear of being ‘found out’
* Self-respect from knowing that I’ve conquered my last addiction, the oldest and deepest rooted one that has been with me for years
* Real women seem way sexier when they aren’t being mentally compared to a surgically enhanced model with the aid of professional lighting, makeup, acting, video editing, and other tricks used by the porn industry

I relapsed on Valentine’s Day, a silly mistake to make. I’m never looking back. Testosterone is a hell of a drug.

Now, on a more metaphorical level, masturbation can be a lot of things. Think of any habit you have that is fun and comfortable, but never gets you further in life. For me these were video games, TV shows, movies, marijuana, cigarettes, etc. I’m happy to say that the majority of my time is now spent on activities that I find challenging, that I can improve at, and that I think will aid me in the longterm.
