Bradley Michael is cautiously optimistic he goes out with his wife, Aliza, that
they will not be harassed. But he is always optimistic. The “problem” if you 
consider it one is that Aliza is so beautiful that she inspires a particular 
brand of male idiocy. Her aura of attraction is so bright that she can’t dim it.
So a result, she inevitably gets unwanted attention from boring alpha males.
It falls on Bradley to give them a clue, a task he takes no delight in. You see,
he is sympathetic to the men. He understands what he would do for Aliza, and that
they would too. 

Unfortunately, most alphas do not take kindly to being discouraged by a smaller
and arguably more handsome man. In their testosterone blinded state they react
violently. For this reason Bradley is thankful for his years of dedication to
Taijutsu. He is able to disable the unwanted suitors with a carefully calibrated
level of pain and humiliation, and never leave a mark. 

----

It was one of those days where reality was too intricately detailed. Ever since
he had opened his third eye he would have days like this. Days where if he looked
at something for too long, he would begin to notice the details. That nothing
was truly smooth, every surface was textured. And the longer he stared the more
the illusions of form started to unravel, the more the atomic structures would
pop into comprehension. If he stared for a very long time, marveling at the 
elegance of atomic structures, these too would dissolve into a shifting wave of
probability. And then he would have to be very careful, so that his observations
did not inadvertently change the universe he was observing too drastically.

On days like this, where he was afraid he might change reality too much with his
gaze, he would turn inward, although that was what brought him to this state in
the first place.

----


