%title Time Travel Instruction Set

My very good friend wrote [[http://www.youandicouldbe.us/blog/2013/04/10/time-travel-instruction-set/|this same post]], which I thought was great, so I decided to try my hand at a list. This is a list of ten ideas for the ten year old me ten years ago.

# Don’t ever learn something half-assedly. If you do, later you will realize when you need to know it, but not know it. This will cause regret. Just learn everything. Your brain has the capacity. Trust me, you still remember so much stupid trivia about systems you don’t interact with anymore.
# You may think that being shy is a strategy that saves you time in human interactions, because you only interact with people you deem to high enough quality, but really you are just missing opportunities.
# Fear is your best friend. You should follow it or hunt it. If you aren’t choosing to be in situations where you are afraid, you are being complacent.
# Strike a balance. This is a very general statement, and I want you to apply it generally.
# Embarrassment, shame, stigma and other fourth circuit socio-sexual emotions are fine for other people to heed, but you should power through them. These emotions are society’s brakes on what would otherwise be an out of control acceleration of innovation. As an innovator it is your job to shrug off these feelings and keep working.
# Poverty is relative.
# Eradicate negativity from your mind. Every moment truly is an opportunity, sometimes you just have to shift perspectives to see how.
# Cherish the time you have with your friends and your siblings. You don’t know how much of it you will get in the future.
# Remove addictions, build habits.
# Laugh at everything, especially yourself.
