Dear Matt,

You should write to yourself. Why? Because you often get hung up on what your audience will think, and it prevents you from writing and truly expressing yourself. But you know what you want to read, so when you write to yourself, you are able to truly release your creativity. Plus, when you write to yourself, you can instruct yourself in the way you think your life should be lived. Since you know how you want to live, you don’t need all these complicated arguments and theories about why you should live that way, you just need to be told and you will do it.

Writing to yourself can be an effective form of self-hypnosis. Just think, writing is enormously meaningful to you. You really take the written word seriously, and believe that it can guide you to be better. So why not write to yourself and create the words you wish to live by? You think that is a sound principle?

When you write to yourself there is no pressure, because you are the only one reading it. You could publish what you write to yourself, but you shouldn’t care what other people think, because they aren’t your intended audience.

It is often said by great writers that the key to good writing is to know your audience. Well, you know yourself, so your writing will be great for you. There is also a mystical aspect to this, which you know you love, because to know yourself truly is to know other too, because fundamentally we share the human experience. To know yourself is to know others. You know that you had trouble loving and expressing your love for people before you learned to love yourself. How could you give to another person what you thought you did not deserve? When you learned to love yourself, then you also learned to love others. And what a difference it has made in your life, has it not?

So along similar lines, once you have learned to write for yourself, you will also have learned to write for others. And what a wonderful feeling that will be. When you can stir the emotions in your own heart, when you can instill hope and excitement in yourself, then how could you not do so in another? Just think of all the wondrous stories you can weave to inspire children to make the world a better place, the thoughtful philosophical novels that explore the depths of the human experience, rousing popular opinion pieces that influence the public to see things in a new light, clear and concise instruction manuals to help people change their lives with practical skills. All that you are capable of, but you have to practice, and you have to start somewhere. Starting with yourself takes off all the pressure. Why would you judge yourself for what you have written to yourself? It’s an inherently self-defeating action.

You can’t bullshit yourself. So when you write to yourself, you are writing without artifice and with nothing to hide. What are your motivations for writing to yourself? You already know. Hopefully your motives are good, because you are kind to yourself.

Writing to yourself is easy, because you don’t have to worry about logical progressions between one thought and the next. It makes sense to you, because you just meandered to a new topic, and you don’t care where things are headed. Writing to yourself is fun because you can come up with as many astounding ideas without worrying about how they will be perceived. 

Writing to yourself is a little different than writing to your diary.

Write to yourself everyday, because you will not regret it. You want to write, you’ve just been shy about expressing yourself in the past. You have a lot of soul, and you can get comfortable with sharing that by first sharing it with yourself. Write to yourself everyday, and the words will become malleable as putty. As you write to yourself everyday you may notice a sense of ease and eloquence in your composition. In the days and weeks ahead you may find great enjoyment in writing to yourself everyday. People can, you know, write to themselves everyday, and in doing so gain great practice in writing.
