%title You Haven't Yet

Here’s something to think about. The pattern “I can’t X” is almost always an error in thinking.

Let’s say you are learning to shilurple for the first time. What shilurpling consists of is irrelevant. The point is you are trying to do it, and you’ve failed five times already. At this point, thinking “I can’t shilurple” is a logical error. The _factual_ and _true_ statement would be “I haven’t shilurpled yet.”

This is one of the most prevalent fallacies of thought that exists. Think about how you would scientifically prove you can’t do anything. It’s nearly impossible to scientifically prove that something can’t be done. You can really only prove that something can be done. 

To prove a statement like, “I can’t run five miles” you would have to try every single configuration of starting conditions and five mile tracks to prove that they all don’t work. In the course of trying such an experiment I think you would very rapidly discover that you can, in fact, run five miles. For example, if you have been working out for a while (part of the initial condition) and the entire five miles was downhill.

If I wanted to prove a statement like “I can’t use the line ‘How would you like to be increasingly happy each day for the rest of your life?’ to get a lady’s phone number” I would have to literally use this line with every single woman ever. 

So remember. It’s not “I can’t do math” it’s “I haven’t been able to do math yet”. It’s not “I don’t enjoy bluegrass” it’s “I haven’t enjoyed bluegrass yet”. It’s not “I can’t stand snakes” it’s “I haven’t been able to stand snakes yet”.

Never preclude yourself from future possibilities. To do so is limiting! Some limits are good, granted. I gladly live within the self imposed limit “I can’t kill someone” and not “I haven’t killed someone yet”. But I urge you to examine all the limits you have built as see if they really benefit you. I used to walk around in a prison constructed out of my own mental limitations, and it sucked. “I can’t talk to girls”, “I can’t have fun at parties”, “I can’t sing”, “I can’t dance”, “I can’t write well”, etc. 

Think about what you can’t do, then think that you can. Break free my friends.
